 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STORAGE AND UNPACKING 
INSTRUCTION OF 
PHOTOVOLTAIC MODULES 
 
 
 
This manual is for Jinko solar PV module storage and unpacking 
instructions. To ensure the safety of loading, unloading, unpacking 
and storage of PV modules, please read this manual carefully. 
When you need to unpack and install the modules, you can search 
and download relevant content from Jinko's official website. 
(www.jinkosolar.com) 
HANDING INFORMATION 
 
 
 
1.1 Forklift handling precautions 
 
⚫ In the process of loading and unloading, the forklift should be selected 
reasonably according to the size and weight of the goods. If the fork 
length is less than 3/4 of the size of the goods, extension sleeves should 
be fitted on the forks before the module is forked, in order to avoid the 
packing container dumping when moving the forklift； 
⚫ When the forklift is loaded with modules, the spacing between the two 
forks should be adjusted as required. The load of the two forks should be 
balanced without deflection. One side of the module package should be 
close to the retainer (Figure1); 
Figure 1 
                                           Figure 2 
⚫ Avoid sharp objects (such as forklift pallet fork) contact or collision with 
module box, so as not to damage the internal modules (Figure 2); 
⚫ Loading and unloading process, except forklift operator, others should 
be kept at a safe distance from range, ensure the safety of personnel; 
⚫ During loading and unloading, special command is required to avoid 
failure and making modules down; 
⚫ When using a forklift to move palletized packing boxes to the operation 
area, the forklift shall be slowly and steadily lifted and put down gently 
during loading and unloading, and the modules shall avoid turbulence and 
violent vibration during transportation. 
 
HANDING INFORMATION 
 
 
 
1.2 Notes for container handling 
 
⚫ 
In order to prevent the safety of placing and unpacking modules affected 
by tilt and uneven ground, please choose flat ground when unloading. 
⚫ When unloading on the platform or ground, steel plate pads or tooling 
shall be used to assist in moving the goods out of the container smoothly, 
to avoid module bumps caused by the gap between the platform and the 
container floor (Figure 3); 
⚫ 
It is recommended that the inclination angle between the fixture pad and 
the plane should be less than 5°, to avoid the forklift hit the top of the 
container due to too much inclination when it comes out of the container; 
⚫ 
When unloading cross-loading modules, special command is required to 
ensure that the forklift does not exceed the modules, and prevent 
damage to adjacent modules when fork is raised or placed due to 
excessive length of forklift arms (Figure 4); 
⚫ When unloading, the whole modules should be balanced as far as possible, 
the forklift arm should be kept relatively horizontal, and the forklift truck 
should fork the modules out of the container slowly and smoothly; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 
Figure 4 
 
 
HANDING INFORMATION 
 
 
⚫ During the fork out of the modules, it is allowed of 2~3cm spacing 
between modules and walls or adjacent modules, and then move back 
slowly to prevent the carton from being damaged by friction between 
modules and wall or adjacent modules (Figure 5); 
⚫ When the goods go out of the container port, please slow down, and lower 
the height of the forklift arm from the ground (it is recommended to close 
to the bottom plate to reserve enough space for the top), pay attention to 
the distance between the bottom of the goods and the top of the 
container, prevent the goods from colliding with the top of the container, 
and ensure that the whole pallet module is safely removed from the 
container (Figure 6); 
⚫ If the modules need to be temporarily stored after unloading, it is 
recommended to keep sufficient space between each pallet to avoid 
scratching the carton or pallet during the second transfer. 
  Figure 5 
 Figure 6 
1.3 Tiger Pro/Neo container handling requirements and precautions 
⚫ Unloading Tools: Forklift/Unloading platform/Unloading pad tooling. 
If the container is unloaded on the unloading platform, it is required to be 
used with the unloading platform or tooling. 
 
 
 
 
 
HANDING INFORMATION 
 
 
⚫ The height of the unloading platform and the height of the unloading 
tooling should be kept at the basic level with the bottom of the container 
(loading bottom plate), and the height tolerance should be controlled 
within ±10mm. 
The length of the horizontal extension of the unloading platform or 
unloading tooling L≥ the total length of the unloading forklift and the 
length of the module packing box. 
L≥L1+L2 
L
：
Length 
extending 
horizontally 
from 
the 
unloading platform to the 
bottom of the container 
L1：Length of unloading forklift 
L2：Length of the module packing box 
 
 
Height of the container above the ground 
 
 
⚫ When the container is unloaded： 
When using the fuel forklift, adjust the height of the forks from the ground, 
the forks into the short side of the pallet, after the forks into the bottom, 
lift the modules at an appropriate height (the tilt angle required to lift the 
modules <2°), the smaller the distance from the ground when the forklift 
out of the container door, ensure that the height of the forks from the 
ground and the distance from the goods to the top of the container is not 
more than 80mm; 
When the horizontal electric forklift is used to unload the goods, the arm 
length of the forklift mechanical arm is required to be ≥1800mm. The arm 
length of the forklift mechanical arm is required to lift the modules from 
the short side of the pallet with a fork (the height of the forklift is required 
to be ≤40mm from the ground), and the modules are moved out slowly. 
If the modules are unloaded from long side forks, fuel oil forklifts are 
needed to unload. 
H2: Height of the module packing box 
H1: Height of the container door 
 
 
 
H1 H2 
 
 
 
Height of the container above the ground 
 
 
HANDING INFORMATION 
 
 
1.4 Attention in loading and unloading with hoisting 
 
⚫ The hoisting rope of crane unloading needs to choose a longer nylon sling, 
wire rope is not allowed to use (Figure 7) ； 
⚫ Before lifting, the length of the sling should be evenly distributed on both 
sides to avoid the case body tilting to one side during lifting, which causes 
the sling to be too tight and the assembly to explode; 
⚫ When lifting, the box should be kept balanced to avoid module tilting； 
⚫ When someone is required to direct the hoisting box to fall during 
unloading, it shall be kept as flat as possible to avoid collision and throwing 
of the module box, and the ground shall be flat (Figure 8). 
 
Figure 7 
Figure 8 
⚫ In order to minimize the impact of sling on the 
safety of goods in the process of hoisting, the 
modules without frame should be supported 
during loading and unloading. For example, 
wooden sticks, boards, or other fixtures of the 
same width as the outer packing cases should be 
used on the upper part of the box to reduce the 
pressure of the contact position on the box 
(Figure 9). 
 
Figure 9     
STORAGE INFORMATION 
 
 
 
MOUDLE SHOULD BE HANDLED BY 2 PERSONS 
KEEP DRY 
 
 
 
 STACK LIMIT IN 2 UNITS THIS SIDE  THIS SIDE UP 
 
 
 
 
 FRAGILE 
 
DO NOT STEP ON 
 
 
 
 
 
STORAGE INFORMATION 
 
 
2.1 Attentions for storage 
 
⚫ Due to the complex environment and climate of the project site, it is 
recommended to store the stacked modules with single support after 
dismounting in order to ensure the safe storage of the modules on site (Only 
after cutting the outer packing belt of the connecting two brackets, separate 
the upper and lower brackets), the dual glass modules shall be stored with 
single pallet after dismounting; 
⚫ The modules shall be stored in a complete outer package. The storage area 
shall be protected pallets and boxes from damp, direct sunlight and 
waterproof (rain) measures; 
⚫ The modules storage areas should be kept dry, level, the ground and the 
horizontal Angle is less than 10 °; 
⚫ Make sure that all modules with the same current gear are installed in the 
same area centrally (Square matrix, combiner box); 
 
Figure 10 
Figure 11 
⚫ 
The modules should be placed neatly with a safe distance between the 
boxes. The spacing between boxes should be greater than 30cm（Figure 
10）； 
⚫ 
Please do not stack other items on the modules or boxes (Figure 11).
 
UNPACKING INSTRUCTION 
 
 
3.1 Equipment and Tools: Cutter, Glove, Forklift 
 
3.2 People: No less than two persons 
 
3.3 Unpacking step 
 
Packing method A: 
 
  
 
1. Cut off straps within the 
two pallets, and use a 
forklift to separate the two 
pallets. 
2. Cut off the packing straps 
of the single pallet, then 
remove the isolated wood 
(or plastic wrap) and the 
carton cover. 
3. Remove the first module 
labeled "1" from the opening 
position (marked in red) 
firstly. 
4. Remove the remaining 
modules from the box 
sequentially. 
5. When the last 5 pieces of 
modules are left in the box, 
please placed to a solid 
support on the side of 
modules to avoid the box 
turned over due to the 
strong wind and accidental 
collision. 
UNPACKING INSTRUCTION 
 
 
Packing method B: Plan 1(Conventional Packaging) 
 
1. Remove the wrapping film around the box 
and separate the upper and lower boxes. 
 
 
 
 
2. The long side of the module to be 
unpacked needs to be close to a solid 
support for about 15-20cm distance, the 
support could be a wall, rack or another 
unpacked module box of the same type, 
and then use scissors to cut all the packing 
strap of the outer box. 
 
3. Remove the top cover of the box, and then 
remove the carton by lifting it. Two persons 
hold the modules to prevent them from 
tipping over. The other person cuts the top 
2 horizontal straps and the 2 vertical straps 
of the modules, retaining the bottom 
horizontal strap. 
 
4. 
Stand on both sides of the short side of the 
module and slowly lean the module 
towards the support, and when the module 
is completely leaning on the support, cut 
the remaining bottom horizontal packing 
strap on the short side; finally, remove all 
modules sequentially from the outer one. 
Note: When cutting the internal packing strap, 
the person must stand on both sides of the 
short side to avoid the modules from sliding 
down and hitting person due to rough ground. 
The remaining modules should be placed flat 
and packed with the straps before being 
transported. 
UNPACKING INSTRUCTION 
 
 
Packing method B: Plan 2(With the internal wooden N-
shaped protectors) 
 
1. 
Remove the wrapping film around the box 
and separate the upper and lower boxes. 
 
2. 
The long side of the module to be 
unpacked needs to be close to a solid 
support for about 15-20cm distance, the 
support could be a wall, rack or another 
unpacked module box of the same type, 
and then use scissors to cut all the packing 
strap of the outer box. 
 
3. 
Remove the top cover of the box, and then 
remove the carton by lifting it. Cut the 3 
horizontal straps on the wooden N-shaped 
protectors and then remove the wooden 
N-shaped protectors. 
 
4. 
Two persons hold the modules to prevent 
them from tipping over. The other person 
cuts the top 2 horizontal straps and the 2 
vertical straps of the modules, retaining the 
bottom horizontal strap.  
 
5. Stand on both sides of the short side of the 
module and slowly lean the module 
towards the support, and when the module 
is completely leaning on the support, cut 
the remaining bottom horizontal packing 
strap on the short side; finally, remove all 
modules sequentially from the outer one. 
Note: When cutting the internal packing strap, 
the person must stand on both sides of the 
short side to avoid the modules from sliding 
down and hitting person due to rough ground. 
The remaining modules should be placed flat 
and packed with the straps before being 
transported.  
UNPACKING INSTRUCTION 
 
 
Packing method B: Plan 3(With the exterior wooden 
protector and cross-packing) 
 
1. Remove the wrapping film around the box, 
then cut the cross-packing straps and 
remove the exterior wooden protector. 
 
2. Cut the straps of the upper and lower 
modules packages, then separate the upper 
and lower modules boxes. 
 
3. The long side of the module to be 
unpacked needs to be close to a solid 
support for about 15-20cm distance, the 
support could be a wall, rack or another 
unpacked module box of the same type, 
and then use scissors to cut all the packing 
strap of the outer box. 
 
4. Remove the top cover of the box, and then 
remove the carton by lifting it. Two persons 
hold the modules to prevent them from 
tipping over. The other person cuts the top 
3 horizontal straps and the 2 vertical straps 
of the modules, retaining the bottom 
horizontal strap. 
 
5. Stand on both sides of the short side of the 
module and slowly lean the module 
towards the support, and when the module 
is completely leaning on the support, cut 
the remaining bottom horizontal packing 
strap on the short side; finally, remove all 
modules sequentially from the outer one. 
Note: When cutting the internal packing strap, 
the person must stand on both sides of the 
short side to avoid the modules from sliding 
down and hitting person due to rough ground. 
The remaining modules should be placed flat 
and packed with the straps before being 
transported. 
UNPACKING INSTRUCTION 
 
 
3.4 Attention to unpacking 
 
⚫ When opening cartons outdoors, avoid operating on rainy days because the 
cartons will soften and spread out to damage modules after rain; 
⚫ Fixed measures shall be taken for disassembled modules when outdoor 
wind-operated. It is advisable not to move the modules to avoid damage； 
⚫ Stack modules in a ventilated, rainproof, and dry place before the modules 
are unpacked; 
⚫ Use scissors or art knife to cut the outer box packing tape. Do not scratch 
glass. Confirm the number of modules in the box immediately after opening 
the case; 
⚫ After leaving the box, support should be placed on the back of the assembly 
to prevent the modules from collapsing (Figure12); 
⚫ The working ground needs to ensure that the packing box can be stably 
placed horizontally to avoid dumping of the modules; 
⚫ The transshipment movement of the packing box shall be completed before 
the outer packing case is removed, and after unpacking, it shall no longer be 
transshipped with no fixed protection of the packaging material, and it shall 
be repackaged before being transported, or a single piece of manual short 
distance lifting shall be carried out; 
⚫ Please wear protective gloves during unpacking and handling to avoid 
scratching hands or leaving fingerprints on glass; 
⚫ Each module needs to be carried by 2 people, pull the junction box is 
prohibited in any case, when lifting the module, grab the short edge and take 
out the module (Figure 13); 
⚫ Do not remove the corner guard from the modules before installation; 
⚫ The install remaining modules should be placed centrally and protected by 
packing case; 
⚫ Before installation, please use scissors to cut the binding band of the fixed 
wire to avoid the connector hitting the back and damaging the modules. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12                          Figure 13 
 
UNPACKING INSTRUCTION 
 
 
3.5 Instruction for unpacking, handling and sampling at project site  
1. When the modules are transported at the project site, the transportation 
route shall be selected on a smooth road to avoid damage or cracks of the 
modules caused by turbulence, collision, extrusion, tilt and other factors. The 
modules shall be transported on a flat ground; 
2. Remove the packing straps and protective film of the upper and lower pallets, 
and separate the upper and lower pallets with a forklift truck (the shelf wall 
of the forklift truck shall have cushions, such as foam or silicone pads, to 
prevent hidden cracks caused by the collision or extrusion between the 
modules and the shelf wall (Figure 14)); 
3. If the modules need to be spot tested, please refer to the unpacking 
instructions of this manual 3.3/3.4 to unbox the modules;  
During the unpacking process, a solid support has to be provided on one 
side of the module to prevent it from toppling over (Figure 15); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 14(1) 
Figure 14(2) 
Figure 15 
4. When taking the modules out of the box, it is recommended to use 
protective tooling to separate the modules to prevent friction from 
producing flecks. Hard pulling and skewed drawing of the modules are not 
allowed (Figure 16). 
 
UNPACKING INSTRUCTION 
 
 
5. After modules are taken out of box, they should be placed on a vacant pallet. 
Module should be carried by two people and handled with care during the 
sampling process (Figure 17). In the process of sampling, the following 
precautions should be paid attention to avoid causing secondary cracks of 
modules; 
a) If you need to remove the ties which are used to fix cables, use a tool such 
as scissors to cut off the ties. And do not hit the rear side of module with 
the connector. 
b) If the module needs to be turned over, fixing measures (adhesive tape, 
etc.) shall be adopted to fix the connectors to prevent the cracks caused 
by the drop of the connectors (Figure 18); 
c) After the completion of the test, remove the tape on the cable, and then 
fix the cable with a tie, and then pack the modules again for secondary 
transport; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 16                                 Figure 17                                      Figure 18
INSTRUCTION FOR SAMPLING 
 
 
4.1 Instruction for sampling at the project site 
 
1. Remove the tie: hold the connector upward with right hand, twist the 
connector and pull it upward slightly. Cut the tie with scissors, and do not 
make the connector hit the rear side of the module. 
 
 
 
 
2. Connect the connector: When connecting the connector, do not shake the 
cable to avoid damaging the module. 
3. Turn over the module: Use fixing measures (adhesive tape, etc.) to fix 
connector or hold the connector and cable with hands to prevent the cracks 
caused by the dropped connector or cable. 
4.2 Instruction of sample modules 
 
1. Sample modules must be selected for sampling with no damage to the outer 
package. 
2. If the client will have a second transfer of modules, Jinko is only responsible 
for the EL test results of the modules at the first unloading point. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global Sales & Marketing Center 
 
No.1, Lane 1466, Shenchang Road, 
Minhang District, Shanghai, China  
Postcode：201106 
Tel:+86 21 5183 8777 
Fax:+86 21 5180 8600 
 
Jiangxi Manufacture Base 
 
No.1 Yingbin Road, Economic 
Development Zone, Shangrao City, 
334100, Jiangxi, P.R.China 
Tel:+86 793 858 8188 
Fax:+86 793 846 1152 
 
Zhejiang Manufacture Base 
 
No.58 Yuanxi Road, 
Haining Yuanhua Industrial Park, Zhejiang  
Province, China 314416  
Tel: +86 573 8798 5678 
Fax: +86 573 8787 1070 
www.jinkosolar.com | Technic Support: technic@jinkosolar.com | After-sales: cs@jinkosolar.com